# Eaton Intelligent Power Manager Editions 2.8.0 - Release note
(May 2024)

## Scope:
* MONITOR/MANAGE/OPTIMIZE Editions

## Packaging:
IPM Editions 2.8.0 is delivered in the following formats:
- OVA package for VMware workstation 15.5 or VMware 6.7 or higher
- OVA package for VirtualBox
- Hyper-V virtual appliance package (current supported version 2019, 2022)
- Upgrade package for existing customers

## Improvements & New Features:
-	The dashboard benefits from an improved design for its gauges, enhancing the overall user experience.
-	IPM Editions now operates on the most recent stable release of the Debian OS (Debian 12).
-	The Power Monitoring page now offers asset filtering per location and dynamic group. This feature streamlines asset management and provides greater flexibility.
-	Eaton Secured protocol is available on Rack PDU G4 devices for discovery and monitoring only (since FW version 3.x).
-	Virtualization connectors now supports Nutanix AHV 6.5 and Nutanix running over ESXi.

## Licensing:
- Online licensing enrolment is now available by default.
- The trial license now includes 50 node credits, allowing users to explore our software more extensively during the trial period.
- When the main license expires, the software will be automatically blocked until a new subscription is activated. User is then guided to subscription page to ensure seamless continuity and compliance.

## Fixes:
- Continuous and proactive Cybersecurity enforcement performed
- No more timeout errors when manually adding a Rack PDU G4 unit with more than 35 outlets
- Fixed the fact that some automations might unexpectedly restart.
- No more issues in Save & Restore feature involving “Set of Action” automation or “Rollback” action
- Enhancements to NTP Server behavior. NTP Server choice is now only based on NTP User Settings.
- Improved Hyper-V support for internationalized Virtual Machines (VMs).
- Enhanced server pairing functionality for Microsoft IT connectors.

## Known issues:
- User Settings (Session Lease Time Out and Inactivity Timeout) are not configurable in Local Users tab.
- Virtual machines state is not automaticaly updated in Virtual Asset tab - manual refresh is requested to see updates.

## End of support:
- Connector NetApp is not supported anymore.
