# Brightlayer Distributed IT - Lite 3.0.0 - Release note
_IPM 3.0.0_ \
(June 2026)

## Announcement

__Eaton__ is pleased to inform customers that the Intelligent Power Manager software product (IPM) is now part
of the __Brightlayer__ product family, building on over 10 years of experience and success in the IT industry.
As a result, the IPM product transitions to __Brightlayer Distributed IT - Lite__.
The transition from IPM 2.8.x to Brightlayer Distributed IT - Lite 3.0.0
will be handled through the standard software upgrade process.

## Packaging:

The release 3.0.0 is delivered in the following formats:

* OVA package for VMware workstation 25 or VMware 7.0 (U3) or higher
* OVA package for VirtualBox 7.2.x
* EXE package for Hyper-V versions 2025, 2022, 2019
* OVA package for Proxmox versions 9.1.x, 8.4.x
* Upgrade package for existing IPM2 customers

## Virtualization Connectors:

### The Proxmox connector provides: *NEW*

* IT capabilities for managing Proxmox infrastructure assets such as clusters, hosts, and virtual machines.
* It enables comprehensive monitoring of these assets and offers a range of actionable operations, as detailed below.

#### Proxmox Provided actions:

##### Virtual Machines actions

* Start (Power On)
* Stop (Power Off)
* Shutdown
* Migrate

##### Hosts actions

* Shutdown

##### Clusters actions

* HCI Cluster Shutdown and Restart

##### Cluster actions details

* HCI Cluster Shutdown and Restart feature requires an Eaton Network M3 Card (version 2.3 or higher), except when the software is deployed outside the target cluster.
* Cluster returns to its previous state after shutdown and restart.
* Graceful shutdown/restart of Ceph storage is managed.
* User virtual machines restart is manageable through a provided option.
* Containers are implicitly handled (graceful shutdown with the host). \
Note: Infrastructure containers are not explicitly supported; they are handled in the same way as standard containers.

### Update Nutanix Connector to support:

* Latest version AOS 7.5 for AHV through Prism
* On Nutanix 7.5, the software supports "On Demand SSH Start and Stop". With this new feature, users can now disable the SSH service by default on all their hypervisors without affecting IT infrastructure protection during HCI Cluster Shutdown or Restart. After any IT action (such as HCI Cluster Shutdown or Restart) the SSH service status on each hypervisor remains exactly as it was before the action.

## Cybersecurity:

* Latest package updates and security patches

## Fixes:

* When a VMware tag is renamed in vCenter, IPM is now notified and the content of the IPM Dynamic Group is updated accordingly. Customers may need to review their group rules.
* Improved DataCore IP address validation in the UI to reject invalid formats (e.g. spaces).
* Improved Nutanix “Enter Maintenance Mode” behavior by introducing support for virtual machine live migration instead of power-off.
* Improved the way to restore IT automation with Save & Restore feature.
 

